What a joy to welcome all of you around the world wherever you might be to morning worship on this most important day of
2025 the memorial of Christ death
welcome
To begin our program brother Bob butler helper to the publishing committee will read our scripture text
Memorial Saturday, April 12th
The gift God gives is everlasting life by Christ Jesus our Lord
Romans 6 verse 23
Thank you, Bob
This evening we'll consider ways that we can show appreciation for the two greatest expressions of love in all history
Let's talk briefly about the gifts of forgiveness and everlasting life
Jehovah's forgiveness
Makes possible everlasting life
How many sins have you committed in your lifetime?
Are there times when you thought said or did something you shouldn't have or
Didn't think say or do something you should have
We've all made innumerable mistakes in life
But just to emphasize the point imagine that a person commits 10 sins a day
Maybe 10 is a bit conservative if we're honest about our own imperfection
But that's 10 sins a day 365 days a year. How many sins would that be in 25 years?
91,250
Can't forget about leap year add on six more days for a grand total of 91,310 and
That's just 10 sins a day
in 50 years it would be over
180,000
That's an enormous debt of sin
It certainly minimizes the few sins that our brother might commit against us
Well the first part of our scripture text for today Romans 6 verse 23 says
The wages sin pays is
Death
Yes, sin earns us the death penalty
Now are we able to atone for or cover such sin?
Psalm 49 verses 7 and 8 provides the answer there it says bluntly none of them can ever redeem or
Buy back release liberate a brother or
Give to God a ransom for him the ransom price for their life is so precious
Then it is always beyond their reach
Our situation was hopeless from a human perspective. We cannot redeem ourselves
It's frustrating when something we desperately need is beyond our reach
But that's where Jehovah stepped in the second part of Romans 6 verse 23 says
The gift God gives is ever lasting life by Christ Jesus our Lord
Our desperate predicament magnifies so much more the gift that God gives ever lasting life through the forgiveness of sins
The Greek word here translated gift is
closely related to the Greek word often rendered undeserved kindness
Therefore gift could be rendered undeserved gift or gracious gift
Of course the emphasis is not on the unworthiness of the recipient, but rather
on the generosity of the giver
Jehovah loved you
so much that he offered his only begotten son as a ransom sacrifice
The gift God gives is ever lasting life
But do you ever struggle with past mistakes wondering if Jehovah has truly forgiven you?
Just how completely does Jesus sacrifice cover our sins?
Jehovah provided a dramatic illustration during the annual atonement day in ancient Israel that can give us comfort and assurance even today
In Hebrew day of atonement literally means day of the coverings
Insight on the scriptures says the following under atonement day
Visualizing the impressive events of the day makes possible a better understanding of what it meant to the Israelites
Undoubtedly they were then moved to greater consciousness of their sinfulness and the need of redemption
As well as to a fuller appreciation of Jehovah's abundant mercy and making this arrangement to cover their sins of the past year
Leviticus chapter 16
describes the atonement day in detail
And Jehovah's organization has produced an excellent video entitled the tent
That depicts many of the features you might want to review it
But there's another feature of the atonement day that we don't often think about
Leviticus chapter 16 verse 5
Says that Aaron the high priest should take from the assembly of the Israelites two young male goats for a sin offering
So in this case the two goats together made up one sin offering
Let's now read verses 7 through 10
Leviticus 16 verses 7 through 10
There it says he Aaron will then take the two goats and make them stand before Jehovah at the entrance of the tent of meeting
Aaron will draw lots over the two goats the one lot for Jehovah and the other lot for Azazel
Aaron will present the goat that was designated by lot for Jehovah and make it a sin offering
But the goat designated by lot for Azazel should be brought alive to stand before Jehovah in order to perform the atonement upon it
So that it may be sent away for Azazel into the wilderness
Here we learn of the goat for Azazel
The footnote says that
Azazel possibly means goat that disappears
As explained in the following verses
After Aaron sacrificed the bowl of the sin offering and made atonement for himself and for his house including the tribe of Levi
Then he sacrificed the first goat
The goat for Jehovah
With it he made atonement for the sins of the people and for the second goat the goat for Azazel that would be sent into the wilderness
Atonement for this live goat came from the blood of the goat that had just been killed as a sin offering
The life of the flesh being in the blood
The blood value or life value of the slain goat was transferred to the live goat or the goat for Azazel
What happened next?
Notice please verses 20 through 22
verse 20
When he Aaron has finished making atonement for the holy place and the tent of meeting and the altar
He will also present the live goat
Aaron will lay both his hands on the head of the live goat and confess over it
all the errors of the Israelites and all their transgressions and all their sins
And he will put them on the head of the goat
And send it away into the wilderness by the hand of a man designated to do this
The goat will carry upon itself all their errors into a desert land
And he will send the goat away into the wilderness
The high priest confessed over the goat all the errors of the Israelites and all their transgressions and all their sins
As the people listened to his words
No doubt they thought about their own sinfulness
And mistakes they personally had made over the past year in fulfilling the mosaic law
Can you imagine watching as the goat was led farther and farther from the tabernacle on that annual day of atonement
Later in Israel's history the goat was pushed off a cliff to ensure that it wouldn't return
The people watched attentively
As the goat figuratively carried their sins into the wilderness never to be seen again
The Israelites must have felt tremendous relief as they saw the live goat being led out of the camp
Never to return what a remarkable illustration of Jehovah's
forgiveness
Of course there were times in Israel's history when the day of atonement meant so much more to individual Israelites
For instance
Imagine that you were King David
Following his grave sin with Bathsheba and the subsequent murder of Eureia
Although Nathan the prophet told repentant David that Jehovah forgave him
Seeing the goat for a zeal go off into the wilderness during atonement day
Must have been a great relief to David or think about repentant manasa
Or what about the Jews in Josiah's day or Nehemiah's day
Who came to realize how far they had deviated from God's law
No doubt the day of atonement brought them great comfort and assurance
As they made straight paths for their feet
And meditated on Jehovah's great mercy
Why is this comforting and reassuring to us
Thousands of years later
Please turn with me to Isaiah chapter 53
And let's note verses four and five
Isaiah 53 four and five
Regarding the Messiah Isaiah prophesied
Truly he himself carried
Our sicknesses and he bore our pains
But we considered him as plagued stricken by God and afflicted
But he was pierced for our transgression. He was crushed for our errors
He bore the punishment for our peace
And because of his wounds
We or heal
While the Jewish atonement day did not produce complete and permanent removal of sin even for Israel
The various features of that annual celebration pointed to the grand atonement
Made by Jesus Christ
He served as the scapegoat
He carried our sicknesses. He was pierced for our transgression
Yes, Jehovah covered our enormous debt of sin with Jesus ransom sacrifice
We might illustrate it this way
Imagine that you go out to dinner with friends
And the same person pays the bill every single time. He says
It's okay. I've got you covered
Next time he says
I'll pick up the tab
Next time
I'm paying the bill he says
We become embarrassed when someone repeatedly covers our debt
But we feel deep appreciation for the kindness and generosity shown to us
Isn't that what Jehovah does for us on a daily basis
Every sin
Every mistake
Every transgression if we're repentant
Jehovah freely forgives us
The price is paid Jehovah says
I've got you covered
For that reason the Apostle Paul could write at 1 Timothy 1 verse 15
This saying is trustworthy and deserving of full acceptance
Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners
Christ sacrifice has the power to wash away even serious sins
But why is it so important to accept and embrace the teaching of the ransom
Because it's essential to our joy and contentment Jehovah wants us to serve him with rejoicing
With a cleansed conscience we can render acceptable sacred service to Jehovah
In ancient Israel the day of atonement was Tishri the 10th
It's significant that the festival of booze has began less than a week later on Tishri 15th
During that week-long festival
According to Deuteronomy 16 verse 15 the people were to be
nothing but joyful
Because the day of atonement had been observed just five days earlier and their sins were covered or toned for
The people would have a sense of peace with Jehovah
Joyful Thanksgiving was the distinguishing mark of the festival of booze
What about us?
Certainly during this memorial season we have moments of silent meditation to think about what God and Christ have done for us
We're motivated to cultivate and show our appreciation for the undeserved gift of everlasting life
We also let go of the sins of others toward us. We do not want to accept Jehovah's undeserved kindness and miss its purpose
Yet we also rejoice in Jehovah's mercy and forgiveness
We demonstrate the joy of Holy Spirit. We agree with King David who expressed at Psalm 32 verse 1
Happy is the one whose transgression is pardoned whose sin is covered
So what have we considered?
The wages sin pays is death yes
But the gift God gives is everlasting life by Christ Jesus our Lord
And the day of atonement in ancient Israel assures us that Christ sacrifice
completely takes away our sins
Comforting thoughts as we prepare our heart for the memorial
As brother Butler reads the printed comments please note how Jesus offered a corresponding ransom
On our own we could never redeem ourselves from sin and death
So at great cost to himself and to his dear son
Jehovah reigns for Jesus to give his life in our behalf
The more we meditate on what Jehovah and Jesus sacrifice for us
The more we will appreciate the ransom
When Adam sinned he forfeited the prospect of everlasting life not only for himself
But also for all his children
In order to buy back what Adam lost
Jesus offered his own perfect life as a sacrifice
During his entire life on earth
Jesus committed no sin nor was deception found in his mouth
At the time of his death
Jesus perfect life corresponded exactly to the life Adam lost
Thank you, Bob
Now it's time for the memorial Bible reading which we will read in chronological order
Please follow along
The day of the unleavened bread now arrived on which the Passover sacrifice must be offered
So Jesus sent Peter and John saying
Go and get the Passover ready for us to eat
They said to him
Where do you want us to get it ready?
He said to them
Look when you enter into the city a man carrying an earthenware water jar will meet you
Follow him into the house that he enters and say to the landlord of the house
The teacher says to you
Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples
And that man will show you a large furnished upper room
Get it ready there
So they left and found it just as he had told them and they prepared for the Passover
Now on the first day of the unleavened bread
When they customarily offered up the Passover sacrifice
His disciples said to him
Where do you want us to go and prepare for you to eat the Passover?
With that he sent two of his disciples and said to them
Go into the city and a man carrying an earthenware water jar will meet you
Follow him
And wherever he goes inside say to the master of the house
The teacher says
Where is the guest room where I may eat the Passover with my disciples
And he will show you a large upper room furnished and ready
Prepare it for us there
So the disciples went out and they entered the city and found it just as he said to them
And they prepared for the Passover
So when the hour came he reclined at the table along with the apostles and he said to them
I have greatly desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer
For I tell you I will not eat it again until it is fulfilled in the kingdom of God
And accepting the cup he gave thanks and said
Take this and pass it from one to the other among yourselves
For I tell you from now on I will not drink again from the product of the vine
Until the kingdom of God comes
But look the hand of my betrayer is with me at the table
For indeed the son of man is going his way
According to what has been determined all the same
Whoa to that man through whom he is betrayed
So they began to discuss among themselves which one of them could really be about to do this
Also he took a loaf
gave thanks
broken
And gave it to them saying
This means my body which is to be given in your behalf
Keep doing this in remembrance of me
Also he did the same with the cup
After they had the evening meal saying
This cup means the new covenant by virtue of my blood
Which is to be poured out in your behalf
However, there also arose a heated dispute among them
Over which one of them was considered to be the greatest
But he said to them
The kings of the nations lord it over them
And those having authority over them are called benefactors
You though are not to be that way
But let the one who is the greatest among you become as the youngest
And the one taking the lead as the one ministry
For which one is greater the one dining or the one serving
Is it not the one dining
But I am among you as the one serving
However, you are the ones who have stuck with me in my trials
And I make a covenant with you
Just as my father has made a covenant with me for a kingdom
So that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom
And sit on thrones to judge the 12 tribes of Israel
Simon
Look
Satan has demanded to have all of you to sift you as wheat
But I have made supplication for you that your faith may not give out
And you once you have returned strengthen your brothers
Then he said to him
Lord I am ready to go with you both to prison and to death
But he said
I tell you Peter a rooster will not crow today
Until you have denied knowing me three times
He also said to them
When I sent you out without a money bag and a food pouch and sandals
You did not lack anything did you
They said
No
Then he said to them
But now let the one who has a money bag take it
Likewise a food pouch and let the one who has no sword
Sell his outer garment and buy one
For I tell you that what is written must be accomplished in me namely
He was counted with lawless ones
For this is being fulfilled concerning me
Then they said
Lord look here are two swords
He said to them
It is enough
On leaving he went as was his custom to the mount of olives
And the disciples also followed him
On arriving at the place he said to them
Carry on prayer so that you do not enter into temptation
And he withdrew from them about a stone's throw away
And he bent his knees and began to pray saying
Father if you want to remove this cup from me
Nevertheless
Let not my will
But yours take place
Then an angel from heaven appeared to him and strengthened him
But he was in such agony that he kept praying more earnestly
And his sweat became his drops of blood falling to the ground
When he rose from prayer and went to the disciples
He found them slumbering
Exhausted from grief
He said to them
Why are you sleeping?
Get up and keep praying so that you do not enter into temptation
While he was still speaking
Look a crowd
And the man called Judas
One of the twelve was leading them
And he approached Jesus to kiss him
But Jesus said to him
Judas
Are you betraying the son of man with a kiss?
When those around him saw what was going to happen
They said
Lord
Should we strike with the sword?
One of them even struck the slave of the high priest
Taking off his right ear
But in reply Jesus said
That is enough
And he touched the ear and healed him
Jesus then said to the chief priests and captains of the temple
And elders who had come there for him
Did you come out with swords and clubs as against a robber?
While I was with you in the temple day after day
You did not lay your hands on me
But this is your hour and the authority of darkness
Then they arrested him and led him off
And they brought him into the house of the high priest
But Peter was following it a distance
When they lit a fire in the middle of the courtyard
And sat down together
Peter was sitting among them
But a servant girl seeing him sitting in the light of the fire
looked closely at him and said
This man was also with him
But he denied it
Saying
I do not know him woman
After a short time another person saw him and said
You two are one of them
But Peter said
Man I am not
And after about an hour had passed
Another man began insisting strongly
Certainly this man was also with him
For he is in fact a Galilean
But Peter said
Man I do not know what you are saying
And instantly while he was still speaking
A rooster crow
At this the Lord turned and looked straight at Peter
And Peter recalled the statement of the Lord
When he had said to him
Before a rooster crows today
You will disown me three times
And he went outside and wept bitterly
Now the men who held Jesus in custody began to mock him
Hitting him
And after covering his face
They kept asking
Profuside
Who is it that struck you
And they said many other blasphemous things against him
Certainly we are encouraged to know that we will all be united
As Jehovah's happy people and observing the memorial of Christ death this evening
Be assured that the governing body loves each of you
May our father Jehovah bless you all on this special day for his people earth wide